doc(release) release notes oss 24.10 Nov25 (#4871)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-24.10/releases/centreon-os.mdx

## Centreon Web

### 24.10.15

Release date: `December 18, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

- [API Tokens] Added a welcome page when no token exists in the token configuration page.
- [Authentication] Password change attempts are now logged in a dedicated log file.
- [Authentication] When a user is authenticated using an IdP, the password fields no longer appear when editing a contact.

> - [Configuration] "Deploy Service" on host now indicate "Conf Changed*" in Pollers list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] The "Deploy Service" action from the hosts list now triggers a "Conf Changed" flag for the related poller in the pollers list.
```

> - [Configuration] Partitioning will work again with Amazon RDS Aurora but will be very costly the first time in terms of time, CPU, if not done for a while.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Adapted partitioning to properly work with Amazon Aurora RDS again. Impacted user's next partitioning will take longer than usual as the database catches up with missing partitions.
```

- [Configuration] Removed obsolete gorgone error message from configuration generation log.

> - [Resource Status] Graphs containing more than 20 metrics are no longer displayed, for performance and readability reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource Status] For performance and readability reasons, graphs containing more than 20 metrics are no longer displayed.
```

- [UI] Changed wording from "IP Address" to "Address" for pollers.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [ACL] Fixed issue when cumulating ACLs for a same user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ACL] Fixed an issue for users cumulating multiple ACLs that caused the ACL with the highest ID to override other ones.
```

- [API] Fixed an issue where using Rest APIv1 changes the token expiration date.
- [API] Fixed commands when requesting services in real time, using MySQL 8.
- [API] Fixed wrong filtering on realtime service categories listing endpoint

> - [APIv2] Fixed a 500 error when expiration_date = NULL in security_token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API] Fixed an issue where using Rest APIv1 would change the token expiration date.
	- [API] Fixed an issue that caused commands to return an SQL error when requesting services in real time using MySQL 8.
	- [API] Fixed an issue with filtering on realtime service categories listing API endpoint.
	- [APIv2] Fixed a 500 error when using expiration_date = NULL in security_token.
```

- [Anomaly Detection] Fixed an issue on broker configuration generation with proxy parameters.
- [Authentication] Allowed to access Centreon UI through a reverse proxy/load balancer.
- [Authentication] Fixed issue on LDAP authentication.
- [Authentication] Fixed an issue where a user could lose their DN during an LDAP connection.

> - [Authentication tokens] Fixed an issue when canceling action in confirmation modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication tokens] Fixed an issue when clicking "cancel" in the change confirmation modal that caused the token's status to be displayed as changed.
```

- [CLAPI] Fixed an issue where HTML entities were not correctly decoded when exporting.

> - [CLAPI] Fixed an issue where the APPLYTPL command can take a long time to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CLAPI] Fixed an issue where the APPLYTPL command woul take a long time to take effect.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an error when changing host template order in host form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an error when changing the host template order in the host configuration form.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue in Agent configuration where engine was not listening if No TLS was activated (poller-initiated).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue in Agent configuration where engine was not listening if "No TLS" was activated (poller-initiated).
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on Agent configuration where results of filters were not as expected if no matching data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue on Agent configuration where results of filters were not as expected if there was no matching data.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on Hosts configuration where the host name configuration name restriction not align with export configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where host names could be saved with special characters but would then block cause "export configuration" to fail.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on remote servers, where max auto_increment was reached after many exports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue on remote servers, where max auto_increment was reached after many exports causing imports to fail.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue preventing user from disabling a meta-service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue preventing users from disabling a meta-service.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue when searching Host in Agent configuration (Poller-initiated connection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue in Agent configuration (Poller-initiated connection) that prevented users from searching for the host.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where configuration files were not generated when poller was disabled in the listing and re-enabled through the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where configuration files were not generated when the poller was disabled in the listing and re-enabled through the form.
```

> - [configuration] Fixed an issue where configuration wasn't exported for hosts without alias, declared in agent confguration.	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [configuration] Fixed an issue where configuration wasn't exported for hosts without alias and declared in agent configuration.	
```

- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where inputs/outputs were missing when duplicating a Broker config.

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where Host category was not displayed in listing when not linked to Host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where Host categories were not displayed in the listing when not linked to Host.
```

-	[Configuration] Fixed incorrect error message in configuration export.

> - [Core] Fixed an issue where log level wasn't taken into account in token removal script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Core] Fixed an issue where the log level wasn't being taken into account in the token removal script.
```

- [Custom Views - Host-Monitoring] Fixed an issue where only the current page was exported instead of all data.

> - [Dashboards] Fixed an issue preventing to get dashboards filtered by creator by API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Fixed an issue preventing to get dashboards filtered.
```

- [Dashboards] Fixed an issue where host status icons were displayed incorrectly in the group monitoring widget.

> - [Dashboards] Single Metric widget - Fixed the real-time retrieval of metric value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Single Metric widget - Fixed the real-time retrieval of metric values.
```

> - [Downtimes] Fixed issue with meta-service names not being properly displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Downtimes] Fixed an issue with meta-service names not being properly displayed.
```

- [Host groups] Fixed an issue while checking for illegal characters on host group name.
- [Licences] Fixed an error message concerning the creation of a dynamic property in a class when downloading licences.

> - [LDAP Import] Fixed an issue where LDAP user with a UID containing a special character was imported multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [LDAP Import] Fixed an issue where a LDAP user with a UID containing a special character would be imported multiple times.
```

> - [Log] Fixed an issue where Error impCompanyPortal appears on /var/log/centreon/centreon-web.log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Log] Fixed an issue where "Error impCompanyPortal" would appear on /var/log/centreon/centreon-web.log.
```

> - [Monitoring] Fixed an issue on Summary by host group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Monitoring] Fixed an issue on Host Group Summary redirecting users to Resource Status.
```

- [Packaging] Updated permissions of token purge log file

> - [Performance Graphs] Fixed issue when exporting data in CSV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Performance Graphs] Fixed an issue when exporting data in CSV that resulted in an empty file.
```

- [Resource Status] Fixed error when displaying metrics of a meta service.

> - [Resource Status] Prevented services related to a deleted host to appear in menu filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource Status] Services related to a deleted host will no longer appear in menu filter.
```

> - [Translation] Fixed an issue where menu language was left by default in FR when "Detection by browser" option was selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Translation] Fixed an issue where menu language was set to FR when the "Detection by browser" language option was selected.
```

- [Translations] Fixed an issue preventing translations from being displayed.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Security] Enhanced security on password DOM storage in login page.
- [Security] Fixed an RCE on poller reload page.

> - [Security] Securized backup script to prevent command injections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Security] Fixed an RCE vulnerability on poller reload page.
- [Security] Secured backup script to prevent command injections.
```

- [Vulnerability] Fixed an issue on Broken Access Control in Administration Parameters Endpoint.

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed IDOR on Custom Views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed IDOR vulnerability on Custom Views.
```

- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in Configuration > Hosts > hostgroups.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the ACL Menus Access page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the Hosts Configuration page.

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the Recurrent Downtimes page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed vulnerability XSS in the ACL Menus Access page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in the Hosts Configuration page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in the Recurrent Downtimes page.
```

## Centreon DSM

### 24.10.4

Release date: `December 18, 2025`

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [DSM] Fixed an issue on dsmd daemon stuck on start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DSM] Fixed an issue with dsmd daemon bieng stuck on start
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the Extensions Dynamic Services Configure page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in the Extensions Dynamic Services Configure page.
```

## Centreon Open Tickets

### 24.10.5

Release date: `December 18, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

- [GLPI] Fixed group retrieval when using versions 9.5 and above.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - Fixed issue preventing ticket from being closed when the corresponding resource had its status changed since the opening of the ticket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue preventing ticket a from being closed when the corresponding resource had its status changed since the opening of the ticket.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Open Tickets] Fixed an issue that exposed the password when using EasyVista.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed SQL injection in the Notification > Rules page.

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in Configuration > Notification > Rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Open Tickets] Fixed an issue that exposed the passwords when using EasyVista.
	- [Vulnerability] Fixed SQL injection in the notification rules.
	- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in configuration notification rules.
```
